In this lecture, we are going to look at a simple solution for including files.
We are going to be creating over 30 PHP files.
This means we are going to be including each file with PHP in your editor.
Open the indexed php file.
Under the include section, we will be running the include function 30 times.
This part of the course may get repetitive to speed things up.
We should try automatically including files with globs.
Glaub Sounds like a funny word.
I know, but it's a real concept.
The word glob is short for global.
This feature is available in most programming languages.
It's a feature for helping us search for files within a directory.
PHP supports globs.
We can start using it right away.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a function called Glob.
PB will allow us to use this feature with a simple function.
You can read through the documentation for the various values you can pass into the function.
Let's give it a try.
To help us include files in your editor.
Open the index stock php file.
Under the include section.
Define a variable called root files.
The value for this variable will be the glob function.
The glove function will return an array of files found, to be clear.
It will return paths.
It's not going to include the files in the indexed PHP file.
After retrieving these paths, we will loop through the array to include the files one by one.
Inside this function, we must provide a pattern.
The pattern will tell PHP how to search for files.
In this case, we should tell PHP to search for files inside the included directory.
Let's pass in the following path up plugin directory dot includes slash asterisk php.
We are using the constant defined in our plugin for pointing to the plugins directory.
Next we are pointing to the includes directory.
Lastly, we're telling the glob extension to search for PHP files.
We can have various php files.
It would be tedious to type each name.
The name can be replaced with an asterisk character.
This character will tell the tool to select any PHP files.
It's a wild card character.
After creating this variable, let's print it with the print r function.
Typically variables can be echoed.
However, arrays and objects are treated differently with the echo statement.
We may not be able to view the contents of a variable if it's an array.
Therefore, we can use a special function for viewing and arrays.
Contents called print are in the browser.
Let's refresh the home page.
At the top of the page we will be able to view the array.
The register blockstack php file was successfully found and each array item a full path is given to
a file.
However, we're missing the files from subdirectories.
To resolve this issue, we need to create another array.
Head back to the editor under the root files array.
Create another array called subdirectory files.
The value for this variable will be the glob function.
The path will be the following up plug in directory dot includes slash asterisk asterisk slash asterisk
dot php.
We are using another set of wild card characters for directories.
This pattern should allow the tool to find all PHP files within any directory.
Let's update the printer function to output the subdirectory files variable.
Next.
Let's refresh the page.
As you can see, the files from the includes slash blocks directory were found.
Perfect.
Let's head back to the editor to make our life easier.
These arrays should be merged, otherwise we would need to perform two loops for each array.
I'd rather work with a single array.
Create one more variable called all files.
The value for this variable will be the array merge function.
The array merge function will merge to arrays.
We can pass them in as arguments.
Let's pass in the root files and subdirectory files.
Arrays.
Next, let's remove the printer function.
We don't need to view the array data anymore.
After removing the print r function, let's create a loop with the for each statement inside the for
each statement pass in the following values.
All files as file name.
The file name variable will represent each item in the array.
As a reminder, the full path is included with the file name.
We don't need to prefix the pass as we've been doing thus far.
Inside the block.
Let's run the include ones function with the file name variable.
I'm introducing a new function for including files called include once.
It's possible that we may include duplicate files.
PHP may complain if we include the same file twice.
It shouldn't happen, but bugs can be introduced to avoid this error.
We can swamp the include function with the include once function.
This function will check if a file has already been included.
If it has, php will not include the file again.
It's a very helpful function for including files at least once.
After adding this function, the other included functions can be safely removed.
By automatically including files we can skip the step of writing the include function to add a file.
This is going to boost our productivity.
Let's refresh the home page.
The page should not produce errors if it hasn't for you.
You can consider the solution a success just to make sure.
Let's try viewing a page that has a block with server side rendering in the header.
Let's try performing a search.
On this page, we have the custom search form.
As you can see, it's fully functional.
Perfect.
We've successfully auto included files.
In this lecture I introduced a new function for including files.
PHP has another set of functions for adding files called require and require.
Once these functions perform the same action as the include function.
However, if a file can't be found, a fatal error is thrown.
There are two types of errors you may encounter in PHP.
Warnings are the first type of error.
These errors will add a message to the document, but they will not stop the script from running.
If you have additional PHP code, it will be executed after the warning has been displayed.
Fatal errors are the second type of error.
If a fatal error occurs, the PHP script will stop running.
It doesn't matter if you have additional PHP code, the rest of the script will not execute the include.
Functions are considered safer for files that aren't urgent.
If you want WordPress to stop running entirely, you should try using the required function.
In most cases the include functions are more than suitable for a plugin.
We shouldn't interrupt WordPress unless we have to.